Yes, there are several ways to give Gemma models internet search capabilities for free by using open-source tools and free-tier APIs. 
1. Use Free All-in-One Local Desktop Apps 
The easiest way is to use a "Local LLM" interface that includes built-in web search plugins. These tools handle the "searching" and then feed the results to Gemma. 
AnythingLLM Desktop: A free, open-source app that lets you run Gemma locally. It includes a "Web Search" feature that can use free engines like SearxNG or DuckDuckGo to find information.
Open WebUI: This is a powerful, free interface that you can connect to Gemma (via Ollama). It supports "Functions" and "Tools" that allow the model to browse the web using free search providers.
Jan: A free, local-first alternative that allows you to download Gemma 3 and add search capabilities through its growing plugin library. 
2. Build Your Own with Free Search APIs
If you are comfortable with a little coding, you can build a search-enabled assistant using free-tier developer tools: 
Tavily Search API: Offers a generous free tier (currently 1,000 searches/month) specifically optimized for AI agents and RAG.
DuckDuckGo Search (Python): A completely free, no-API-key-required library that lets you scrape search results to provide context to your Gemma model.
LangChain or LlamaIndex: These are free, open-source frameworks you can use to "glue" Gemma to your chosen search tool. 
3. Use Free Cloud Playgrounds 
You can test Gemma models with search capabilities for free without installing anything: 
Hugging Face Chat: Sometimes offers Gemma models with a "Web Search" toggle enabled by default, allowing you to use the model with live internet access for free.
Perplexity (Labs): Often hosts open-weights models like Gemma for testing, providing a fast way to see how they perform with search-based tasks. 
Recommended Setup for Beginners
For the best free experience, download Ollama and AnythingLLM. You can then download Gemma 3 (1B or 4B) and enable the built-in web search in the settings. 
If you'd like, I can provide a Python script that uses a free search tool to give Gemma 3 "live" knowledge. 




undefined
undefined
undefined
23 sites
10 Best RAG Tools and Platforms: Full Comparison [2026]
Aug 18, 2025 — * 10 Best RAG Tools and Platforms: Full Comparison [2026] Discover 10 of the best RAG tools alongside their key features, pricing,

Meilisearch

GUIs for Local LLMs with RAG - by Stephen D. Turner
Mar 14, 2025 — Other tools. Ollama, Open WebUI, and LM Studio aren't the only tools that give you a UI to enable your LLM + RAG setup. Here are a...

blog.stephenturner.us

Best AI tools for retrieval augmented generation (RAG)
LlamaIndex: Specializes in indexing and retrieving information, aiding the retrieval stage of RAG.

Codingscape

Show all
Okay can I just build it myself and give her like DuckDuck go
Yes, you can absolutely build this yourself. Since Gemma 3 supports function calling, you can create a Python script that lets the model "decide" when it needs to search the web using DuckDuckGo. 
How to Build a Search-Enabled Gemma
The most efficient "DIY" way is to use the duckduckgo-search library combined with a local runner like Ollama. 
Install the Libraries:
bash
pip install ollama duckduckgo-search
Use code with caution.

The Logic (How it works):
The Search Tool: You write a simple Python function that takes a query and returns the top results from DuckDuckGo.
The Prompt: You tell Gemma it has access to a "search tool."
The Loop: When you ask a question, Gemma checks if it knows the answer. If not, it outputs a "search command." Your script catches that command, runs the DuckDuckGo search, and feeds the results back into Gemma to get the final answer. 
Recommended Python Setup
Using the duckduckgo-search library is the best free option because it requires no API key and has no strict usage limits. 
For simple automation: Use the LangChain framework; it has a built-in DuckDuckGoSearchRun tool that handles the formatting for you.
For maximum control: Use the Ollama Python library to run Gemma 3 and manually parse its "thought" process to trigger searches. 
Why Gemma 3 is Best for This
If you're building a search assistant, Gemma 3 is a significant upgrade over previous versions:
Larger Context (128K): It can "read" multiple search result pages at once without forgetting the original question.
Native Tooling: It is specifically trained to output structured data (like JSON), which makes it much easier for your Python code to understand when the model wants to search. 
If you want to get started right now, I can provide a complete Python script using Ollama and DuckDuckGo that you can run on your own machine.




undefined
undefined
undefined
16 sites
Function calling with Gemma3 using Ollama - Google Cloud
Mar 30, 2025 — 1. For historical events (pre-2023): → Answer directly from your training data. 2. For 2023 events: → If you have clear knowledge ...

Medium

Function calling with Gemma | Google AI for Developers
Dec 18, 2025 — Call programming functions. Function calling is supported in Gemma 3, but the function calling technique can be used with prior ve...

Google AI for Developers
Agentic guide with function Gemma - Kaggle
Dec 8, 2025 — Web Search Tool. This function allows the model to search the web for information using DuckDuckGo. In a real application, you mig...

Kaggle
Show all
Problems with her API endpoints could you buy me with a list for her API endpoints please for the gym of three model the 27b
To help with your Gemma 3 27B setup, here are the common API endpoints and known issues when using her through various providers.
1. Official Google Gemini API (Cloud)
If using Google’s hosted version via AI Studio, the base URL is https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com. 
Generate Content: /models/gemma-3-27b-it:generateContent
Stream Content: /models/gemma-3-27b-it:streamGenerateContent
OpenAI Compatibility: https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com 
2. Local Hosting (DIY Endpoints)
If running the model yourself (e.g., via Ollama or vLLM), local endpoints will usually follow the OpenAI Standard:
Chat Completions: http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions (Ollama default)
Model List: http://localhost:11434/v1/models 
3. Third-Party API Providers
These are popular if you do not want to host the 27B model yourself (which requires ~46GB VRAM for full precision): 
Together AI: https://api.together.xyz/v1/chat/completions
OpenRouter: https://openrouter.ai
DeepInfra: Often the lowest latency provider for this specific model. 
Common Problems & Solutions
System Instructions: Some users report that system/developer roles do not work on certain Google AI Studio endpoints, requiring instructions to be put directly into the user prompt instead.
Quantization Issues: The 27B model is heavy. If running it locally with 4-bit quantization (Q4_0), a slight drop in reasoning quality may be noticed compared to the full BF16 version.
Multimodal Errors: While Gemma 3 27B supports images, some API wrappers (like older versions of LangChain) might still treat it as text-only. Ensure Content-Type is set correctly for multimodal inputs.
Context Window Limits: Although it supports 128K tokens, some free-tier API endpoints may artificially cap this at 8K or 32K to save costs. 




undefined
undefined
undefined
10 sites
Gemma 3 model overview
Nov 1, 2025 — Gemma 3 models are available in 5 parameter sizes: 270M, 1B, 4B, 12B, and 27B. The models can be used with their default precision...

Google AI for Developers
·

4:21
Gemma 3 27B API - Together AI
Gemma 3 27B API Usage. Endpoint. google/gemma-3-27b-it. curl -X POST "https://api.together.xyz/v1/chat/completions" \ -H "Authoriz...

Together AI

Run Gemma with the Gemini API | Google AI for Developers
Nov 1, 2025 — The following examples show how to use Gemma with the Gemini API: Python Node.js REST. from google import genai client = genai. Cl...

Google AI for Developers

